## Introduction
Hello. I am Matthew Thao, a soon-to-be CS graduate at the University of St. Thomas. During my time at St. Thomas, I have worked on numerous projects that documented my interest in computer science as well as solving problems that others and I have encountered. 
## Projects:
- [Auto Code Reviewer](https://github.com/mattthao4/Auto-Code-Reviewer)
- [Animal Adoption App](https://github.com/mattthao4/Animal-Adoption-App)
- [NutriBot](https://github.com/mattthao4/NutriBot)

## Context for Animal Adoption App
The Animal Adoption App was a project that I made with two others for the final in the CISC 450 Database Design course. The idea was to create an application that utilizes a database, as well as being applicable to a real system. What my groupmates and I chose was to design an animal shelter/adoption database that contained information about adoptions, users, staffs, shelters, animals, animal records, and locations. We designed an ER diagram using Crow's Foot Notation to model how the relationships between these tables work. After designing the database with my team, we decided to use Python, SQL, and Django to create our web application. The reason for this is because we learned to use a Python ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) to connect Python and SQL. After spending some time learning how this application works using Django's documentation, we managed to design a login system that stores user information, allow animal adoptions for animals, allow staffs to log medical records for animals, and more. 

As part of my contribution, I focused on linking web pages, connecting the database to the front end, and creating the login/authentication system. I also helped my other members debug code and create web pages.

The limitations of this system are scalability, only tracks adopters and staffs, minimal information about animals, and difficult to implement in a real setting. Because we used an ER diagram to model how the relationships work, it can become difficult to expand the table once we have started gathering data. The reason for this is because if we wanted to add attributes for the animals, we would need to add in a temporary value for previous data entries. Aside from that, if we wanted to add new tables, we would need to draft more connections between new and existing tables, which can become quite complicated. Not only that, it is also complex to map out all the information we would need if we applied this to a real application due to the lack of knowledge and unknowns. Oour lack of connections to real animal shelters left us guessing what attributes and tables we might need to model this system, which limits the system from being applicable. 

Some challenges of creating this system was our limited knowledge and the period spent building this application. My group and I knew very little about how to use Django and Python to develop a web application. This required is to quickly learn only what was essential to our application, which left the code prone to mistakes and vulnerabilities. Aside from that, the time we had to create this application as well as mapping out the database was relatively short (roughly under a month). This meant that in this timeframe, we had to learn a new tech stack, model a database, and create a website that merged the two. To overcome this issue, we divided the tasks into what fit each other's skill sets and broke the application down to its bare minimum requirements. 

If I were to improve the project, I would work on better abstraction in our schema and get input from real sheltesr to model more realistic adoption flows and medical records.

Overall, this project has demonstrated an interesting experience that fostered collaborative learning and teamwork. Personally, it has taught me how to delegate tasks, maximize each other's skill sets, adapt with time constraints, and make use of the knowledge I had - all to create well-rounded application.
